One emerging data repository architecture is the data warehouse.This is a repository of multiple heterogeneous data sources
organized under a unified schema at a single site to facilitate management
decision making. Data warehouse technology includes data cleaning, data
integration, and online analytical processing (OLAP)—that is, analysis
techniques with functionalities such as summarization, consolidation, and
aggregation, as well as the ability to view information from different angles.

The knowledge discovery process is an iterative sequence of the following steps:
1. Data cleaning (to remove noise and inconsistent data)
2. Data integration (where multiple data sources may be combined)
3. Data selection (where data relevant to the analysis task are retrieved
   from the database)
4. Data transformation (where data are transformed and consolidated
   into forms appropriate for mining by performing summary or aggregation
   operations)
5. Data mining (an essential process where intelligent methods are
   applied to extract data patterns)
6. Pattern evaluation (to identify the truly interesting patterns
   representing knowledge based on interestingness measures
7. Knowledge presentation (where visualization and knowledge
   representation techniques are used to present mined knowledge to users)

Data mining is the process of discovering interesting patterns
and knowledge from large amounts of data. The data sources can include
databases, data warehouses, the Web, other information repositories, or data
that are streamed into the system dynamically.


Database Data

A relational database is a collection of tables, each of which is assigned a
unique name. Each table consists of a set of attributes (columns or fields)
and usually stores a large set of tuples (records or rows). Each tuple in a
relational table represents an object identified by a unique key and described
by a set of attribute values. A semantic data model, such as an entity relationship
(ER) data model, is often constructed for relational databases.
An ER data model represents the database as a set of entities and their
relationships.

Data Warehouses

A data warehouse is a repository of information collected from multiple sources,
stored under a unified schema, and usually residing at a single site. Data
warehouses are constructed via a process of data cleaning, data integration,
data transformation, data loading, and periodic data refreshing.

A data warehouse is usually modeled by a multidimensional data structure,
called a data cube, in which each dimension corresponds to an attribute or
a set of attributes in the schema, and each cell stores the value of some
aggregate measure such as count or sum(sales_amount). A data cube
provides a multidimensional view of data and allows the precomputation
and fast access of summarized data.

Transactional Data

each record in a transactional database captures a transaction,
such as a customer's purchase, a flight booking, or a user's clicks on a web
page. A transaction typically includes a unique transaction identity number
(trans_ID) and a list of the items making up the transaction, such as the
items purchased in the transaction. A transactional database may have
additional tables, which contain other information related to the
transactions, such as item description, information about the salesperson or
the branch, and so on.

Data Discrimination :

Data discrimination is a comparison of the general features of the target
class data objects against the general features of objects from one or
multiple contrasting classes.
